---
layout: post
title: Autocompletion with Vim in 2019.
tags: dotfiles
---

A common observation can be made with newcomers and Vim; plethoras of plugins
are installed to transform the minimal editor into something vaguely resembling
an IDE. Often it's not long until the topic of "autocompletion" comes up, and
how Vim's apparent lack thereof spawns posts titled "I can't get YouCompleteMe
to work"...

If that sounds uncanny, I speak from a similar experience. Like others gone
before me, I too tried the lot—YouCompleteMe, Eclim, Tern, Jedi... if this is
starting to sound pessimistic you can probably tell where this is heading.  **In
2018 I removed the lot**, committing instead to learn Vim's "vanilla"
autocompletion. If you take one thing from this, please study `:help
ins-completion`; `<C-x><C-l>` still provides what I need 9 times out of 10.

## But then came Language Servers.

The development of _VS Code_ introduced the Language Server Protocol (LSP): an
interface between IDEs and servers that provide autocomplete capabilities (et.
al). Such LSP compliant servers (Language Servers) are different to traditional
autocomplete engines in that they are vendor agnostic; they run as stand-alone
daemons on a host machine as opposed to being bundled into IDEs' source code.

In practice, this means you can run a single Language Server and have many
(LSP-compliant) IDEs use it. The inverse side of this relationship means you can
install _one_ LSP plugin and gain autocomplete for as many Language Servers you
wish to entertain—already that's more viable than having one plugin per
language:

    - server sits between ide and autocomplete engines
    - Removes the need for many differing plugins,

of using autocomplete plugins with Vim. During development, Microsoft
